# HTML Resumes Engine

This is a small improvised JavaScript/HTML/CSS templating engine for creating resumes. This solves my personal problems I identified when dealing with resumes on other platforms (LaTeX, Google Docs, MS Word):

1. **Consistent formatting**. A problem with having resumes in Google Docs/Word/etc is that when you decide to change font size in one of your experience entries, you need to remember to do it in all other the exact same way, or otherwise these inconsistencies will accumulate and turn the whole resume into a mess. Here, this problem is solved by a script written from scratch (b/c I didn't find a JS library that would do that) which replaces custom tags with custom attributes like `<xp company="Tesla" role="Data Engineer" start-date="2022-05-23" ...>` with a corresponding pre-defined template `<template id="xp"> <h3> <company></company> </h3> ...</template>` which contains the HTML structure, formatting, etc. 
2. **Instant Result**. A problem with having resumes in LaTeX is that when editing them, you don't see the results of your edits until you hit the "compile" button and a PDF is produced, and if something is misaligned on that PDF, good luck figuring out which part of the formatting broke. On the contrary, HTML can be rendered in milliseconds, which means you can literally see what you type reflected on a rendered HTML in real time (when using a good editor like PyCharm). 
3. **Understandable Rendering Rules**. Another problem with LaTeX resumes, which are known for their *fancy* formatting is that sometimes that formatting gives a result other than what you expect and you have no way of knowing why (e.g., a new line is added, or font is wrong size, etc). At the same time, most modern browsers (Chrome, Safari) have a great built-in HTML debugging features which highlight to you exactly what the CSS of a given fragment are, where they come from, etc, which saves a lot of time. 
4. **Familiar Language**. Yet another problem with LaTeX is that you need to really know LaTeX to be able to implement any formatting whim you have (how to put date above location and make them right aligned on the same line as company name). Me (and many other people) are far more familiar with HTML and CSS to be able to implement every peculiar formatting desire 
5. **Reliability**. Resumes in Google Docs are worthless if you don't have internet. Resumes in LaTeX are worthless if you installed a software update, and your LaTeX doesn't compile anymore. HTML is very universal and at worst can be saved with CMD+P from any browser.
6. **Organizing Multiple Resumes**. Organizing multiple similar files (resumes for different companies) in an online drive (Google Docs) gets quite messy and slow. LaTeX doesn't care where you want your output PDFs to be and makes you configure it for every file or suck it up. HTML provides a lot of customizability (see next bullet point) that allowed me to have everything optimized for the need of having similar resumes for different places (e.g., PDFs in one folder, source files in another).
7. **Extensive Customizability (Easy Export to Pageless PDF)**. A more general problem with both graphical (Word, Google Docs) and compiled (LaTeX) resume engines is that you often don't get to add your very specific customization to the way they make your PDF. In my case, I am a fan of making one-page PDFs and have made a [script](https://github.com/Breedoon/MDtoLongPDF) for converting markdown and HTML files to PDF where all their content is fit in one page with no page breaks, which is perfect for making resumes, so I don't have to worry about one line jumping onto the second page and instead have a slightly longer resume. This ability to customize everything also turned my entire workflow of making resumes into (1) opening the HTML file in PyCharm and editing it, (2) pressing a shortcut that runs my PDF-making script, (3) the resume is open and ready to be sent.
